First the colors. Then the humans. That’s usually how I see things. 
Or at least, how I try. 
You are going to die.
I am in all truthfulness attempting to be cheerful about this whole topic, though most people find themselves hindered in believing me, no matter my protestations. Please, trust me. I most definitely can be cheerful. I can be amiable. Agreeable. Affable. And that’s only the A’s. Just don’t ask me to be nice. Nice has nothing to do with me. Does this worry you? 
I urge you — don’t be afraid. I’m nothing if not fair. 

— Of course, an introduction. 
A beginning.
Where are my manners? 
I could introduce myself properly, but it’s not really necessary. You will know me well enough and soon 
enough, depending on a diverse range of variables. It suffices to say that at some point in time, I will be 
standing over you, as genially as possible. Your soul will be in my arms. A color will be perched on my 
shoulder. I will carry you gently away. 

At that moment, you will be lying there (I rarely find people standing up). You will be caked in your own body. 
There might be a discovery; a scream will dribble down the air. The only sound I’ll hear after that will be my 
own breathing, and the sound of the smell, of my footsteps. 
The question is, what color will everything be at that moment when I come for you? What will the sky be 
saying? 
Personally, I like a chocolate-colored sky. Dark, dark chocolate. People say it suits me. I do, however, try to 
enjoy every color I see — the whole spectrum. A billion or so flavors, none of them quite the same, and a sky to 
slowly suck on. It takes the edge off the stress. It helps me relax. 

A SMALL THEORY 

People observe the colors of a day only at its beginnings and 
ends, but to me it’s quite clear that a day merges through a 
multitude of shades and intonations, with each passing moment. A single hour can consist of thousands of different 
colors. Waxy yellows, cloud-spat blues. Murky darknesses. 
In my line of work, I make it a point to notice them. 
As I’ve been alluding to, my one saving grace is distraction. It keeps me sane. It helps me cope, considering the 
length of time I’ve been performing this job. The trouble is, who could ever replace me? Who could step in 
while I take a break in your stock-standard resort-style vacation destination, whether it be tropical or of the ski 
trip variety? The answer, of course, is nobody, which has prompted me to make a conscious, deliberate decision 
— to make distraction my vacation. Needless to say, I vacation in increments. In colors. 
Still, it’s possible that you might be asking, why does he even need a vacation? What does he need distraction 
from ? 
Which brings me to my next point. 
It’s the leftover humans. 
The survivors. 
They’re the ones I can’t stand to look at, although on many occasions I still fail. I deliberately seek out the 
colors to keep my mind off them, but now and then, I witness the ones who are left behind, crumbling among 
the jigsaw puzzle of realization, despair, and surprise. They have punctured hearts. They have beaten lungs. 
Which in turn brings me to the subject I am telling you about tonight, or today, or whatever the hour and color. 
It’s the story of one of those perpetual survivors — an expert at being left behind. 
It’s just a small story really, about, among other things.
I saw the book thief three times. 
First up is something white. Of the blinding kind. 
Some of you are most likely thinking that white is not really a color and all of that tired sort of nonsense. Well, 
I’m here to tell you that it is. White is without question a color, and personally, I don’t think you want to argue 
with me. 
Please, be calm, despite that previous threat. 
I am all bluster — 
I am not violent. 
I am not malicious. 
I am a result. 
Yes, it was white. 
